docs/configuration.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Configuration
permalink: /configuration/
---

All configuration settings are stored in the `config.ini` file, located at
`/etc/teapot/`. To configure Teapot according to your requirements, follow the
instructions provided inside the file.

## Certificates

Both Teapot and StoRM WebDAV servers require SSL certificates. The
certificate must also be added to the system’s trust store to ensure secure
communication. Path to the Teapot's certificate should be specified in
`config.ini`. To generate self-signed certificates for StoRM WebDAV and add
them to the trust store, run `sudo /usr/share/teapot/self-signed-cert-gen.sh`.

## Storm-webdav configuration files

### Storage areas

Teapot uses a pre-configured template for storage area configuration.
It can be found at:

- Repository: `templates/storage_area.properties.template`
- Installation: `/etc/teapot/storage_area.properties.template`

For user-specific storage areas, configuration files must be created manually
and added to `/var/lib/teapot/user-<username>/sa/<storage_area>.properties`.

To make any changes to the template, please refer to the
[StoRM WebDAV Guidelines](https://github.com/italiangrid/storm-webdav/blob/master/doc/storage-area-configuration.md)
for detailed instructions.

### Authorization Template

Teapot uses a template to define authorization to storage areas, found at:

- Repository: `templates/application.yml.template`
- Installation: `/etc/teapot/application.yml.template`

The template is pre-configured. To make any additional changes, please
refer to the [StoRM WebDAV Guidelines](https://github.com/italiangrid/storm-webdav/blob/master/doc/storage-area-configuration.md)
for detailed instructions.

## Mapping user’s global and local identities

### File-based Mapping Method

Teapot provides three methods for mapping a user’s global and local identities.
The first method is the File-based Mapping Method. Teapot allows manual
storage of user mappings in a file. This file should contain the following
information: for each user, the local username and the user's OIDC subject
claim (sub), as provided by the Identity Provider (IdP). These values must
be listed on a single line, separated by a single space.

Example:

```text
user1 248289761001
user2 a12b3c4d5e6f
```

### ALISE - Account Linking Service

The second method uses the ALISE - Account Linking Service
([ALISE documentation](https://github.com/m-team-kit/alise/tree/master/alise)).
ALISE allows users to log in with a single local account per site while linking
multiple global accounts.

To configure ALISE you must specify:

- The ALISE instance that manages the required mappings.
- The computing center where local identities should be mapped.

To access ALISE's API, you first need to obtain an API key. This can be done
via the following endpoint:
`ALISE_INSTANCE + /api/v1/target/{site}/get_apikey`.
The API key is associated with a specific user and is obtained using an Access
Token. You can retrieve the API key via a `curl` request by including the
Access Token in the request header:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" <API_ENDPOINT>
```

### VO based mapping

The third method is VO-based mapping, where all members of a Virtual
Organization (VO) are mapped to a single local identity. This is a
group-based mapping approach.

To configure VO-based mapping, specify:

- The `eduperson-entitlement` that defines the VO membership.
- The local account to which users with the matching `eduperson-entitlement`
will be mapped.

Commit message:

Keycloak integration (#53)
* Added keycloak integration

* Corrected the line limit linting error

* Added DESY keycloak as a trusted_OP and as a chosen issuer for the SAs

* Added a new storage area to test DESY keycloak

* Updated documentation and the config.ini file

docs/configuration.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Configuration
permalink: /configuration/
---

All configuration settings are stored in the `config.ini` file, located at
`/etc/teapot/`. To configure Teapot according to your requirements, follow the
instructions provided inside the file.

## Certificates

Both Teapot and StoRM WebDAV servers require SSL certificates. The
certificate must also be added to the system’s trust store to ensure secure
communication. Path to the Teapot's certificate should be specified in
`config.ini`. To generate self-signed certificates for StoRM WebDAV and add
them to the trust store, run `sudo /usr/share/teapot/self-signed-cert-gen.sh`.

## Storm-webdav configuration files

### Storage areas

Teapot uses a pre-configured template for storage area configuration.
It can be found at:

- Repository: `templates/storage_area.properties.template`
- Installation: `/etc/teapot/storage_area.properties.template`

For user-specific storage areas, configuration files must be created manually
and added to `/var/lib/teapot/user-<username>/sa/<storage_area>.properties`.

To make any changes to the template, please refer to the
[StoRM WebDAV Guidelines](https://github.com/italiangrid/storm-webdav/blob/master/doc/storage-area-configuration.md)
for detailed instructions.

### Authorization Template

Teapot uses a template to define authorization to storage areas, found at:

- Repository: `templates/application.yml.template`
- Installation: `/etc/teapot/application.yml.template`

The template is pre-configured. To make any additional changes, please
refer to the [StoRM WebDAV Guidelines](https://github.com/italiangrid/storm-webdav/blob/master/doc/storage-area-configuration.md)
for detailed instructions.

## Mapping user’s global and local identities

### File-based Mapping Method

Teapot provides several methods for mapping a user’s global and local
identities. The File-based Mapping Method allows manual storage of user
mappings in a file. This file should contain the following information:
for each user, the local username and the user's OIDC subject claim (`sub`),
as provided by the Identity Provider (IdP). These values must be listed on
a single line, separated by a single space.

Example:

```text
user1 248289761001
user2 a12b3c4d5e6f
```

### ALISE - Account Linking Service

The ALISE - Account Linking Service
([ALISE documentation](https://github.com/m-team-kit/alise/tree/master/alise))
allows users to log in with a single local account per site while linking
multiple global accounts.

To configure ALISE you must specify:

- The ALISE instance that manages the required mappings.
- The computing center where local identities should be mapped.

To access ALISE's API, you first need to obtain an API key. This can be done
via the following endpoint:
`ALISE_INSTANCE + /api/v1/target/{site}/get_apikey`.
The API key is associated with a specific user and is obtained using an Access
Token. You can retrieve the API key via a `curl` request by including the
Access Token in the request header:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" <API_ENDPOINT>
```

### VO based mapping

VO-based mapping maps all members of a Virtual Organization (VO) to a single
local identity. This is a group-based mapping approach.

To configure VO-based mapping, specify:

- The `eduperson-entitlement` that defines the VO membership.
- The local account to which users with the matching `eduperson-entitlement`
will be mapped.

### Keycloak-based Mapping

**Keycloak-based mapping** maps the user's `sub` claim to Keycloak's
`preferred_username`. No extra configuration is needed.
