docs/installation.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Installation
permalink: /installation-guide/
---

## Requirements

Teapot needs `Python3` to run, the specific distribution depends on the
operating system. The required Python packages for installing Teapot are
listed in the [requirements.txt](https://github.com/interTwin-eu/teapot/blob/main/requirements.txt)
file. Python packages that aren't available in the rpm format are already
included in Teapot's rpm file. To automatically generate self-signed
certificate `openssl>3` is needed. Storm-webdav needs `java-21`.

## Installation

Teapot can be installed using either an **RPM** or **DEB** package.

- **DEB package:** Automatically creates a dedicated `teapot` system user. Distribution-independent.
- **RPM package:** Available for Fedora 39, AlmaLinux 9.4, and Rocky Linux 9.3.
The system user must currently be created manually.

For configuration details, please refer to [Configuration](/teapot/configuration),
which covers both Teapot and StoRM-WebDAV.

## Starting

Teapot starts automatically upon installation using a systemd unit file. Once
configured, you can restart the service with
`sudo systemctl restart teapot.service`. To ensure Teapot launches
automatically after each reboot, enable it with
`sudo systemctl enable teapot.service`.

Commit message:

CI/CI pipeline and RPM/DEB packaging update (#57)
- The CI/CD pipeline was updated to automatically create all certificates used in the testing pipeline.
- All test containers are now built within the pipeline.
- RPM packaging was updated to automatically create the teapot system user during installation and to install required Python packages in a more reliable way using a pyt file.
- DEB packaging was updated to install the required Python packages using a pyt file too.
- Storm-webdav unpackaging now also occurs when building the RPM package.
- Dockerfiles were streamlined.
- Empty log and configuration files were removed.
- The release process was automated.

docs/installation.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Installation
permalink: /installation-guide/
---

## Requirements

Teapot requires `Python 3` to run; the exact distribution depends on the operating
system. The Python packages required to install Teapot are listed in the
[requirements.txt](https://github.com/interTwin-eu/teapot/blob/main/requirements.txt)
file.
Python dependencies that are not available as system packages are bundled with the
Teapot packages (both RPM and Debian). To automatically generate and renew
self-signed certificates, OpenSSL ≥ 3 and a cron service are required.
Storm-webdav needs `java-21`.

## Installation

Teapot can be installed using either an **RPM** or **DEB** package.
A dedicated `teapot` system user is automatically created during installation.

- **DEB package:** Distribution-independent.
- **RPM package:** Available for Fedora 39, AlmaLinux 9.4, and Rocky Linux 9.3.

For configuration details, please refer to [Configuration](/teapot/configuration),
which covers both Teapot and StoRM-WebDAV.

## Starting

Teapot starts automatically upon installation using a systemd unit file. Once
configured, you can restart the service with
`sudo systemctl restart teapot.service`.
